README.md, before:

# ECOA LDP: Lightweight Development Platform for the ECOA standard

[ECOA] (European Component Oriented Architecture) is an open specification of a software framework 
for component-based avionics mission system software.

ECOA allows to develop _real-time_, _embeddable_ software, in the form of simple, independent and testable _components_.

The Lightweight Development Platform is a simple ECOA platform, implementing the ECOA standard, version [AS7].
It allows anyone to develop, test and run, ECOA components.
It is also a great tool to learn and evaluate ECOA on a ordinary Linux computer or Virtual Machine.

The Lightweight Development Platform is developed by [Thales] Defence Mission Systems.

## Installation

Refer to the [Installation guide](INSTALLING.md) to install the LDP on a Linux machine.

## User's guide

See the [User's guide](USAGE.md) to get started.

## Features (and non-features)

See [LDP Features](FEATURES.md) for a list of what this ECOA platform supports, and what is does not support.

## Design and architecture

Read the [Design document](DESIGN.md) to understand the design of the LDP.

## Examples

The [Examples](Examples) folder contains examples of LDP use, including an implementation of the philosophers' dinner problem.

## Contributing

Read the [Contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) which outlines our policies, procedures and requirements
for contributing to this project.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


---

[ECOA]: https://www.ecoa.technology/
[AS7]:  https://www.ecoa.technology/public_draft_specifications.html
[Thales]: https://www.thalesgroup.com/

Commit message:

Contribute scripts for the creation of development containers (#5)
* chore: contribute containers

* dockerfile: remove unneeded stuff

* chore: updated build script

* chore: reduce build script inside container to only needed stuff

* chore: run the container as root again to ensure user independent usage

* chore: build-script: clean

* chore: in-container build: rm unneeded env

* chore: remove zenoh ref also from run container script

README.md, after:

# ECOA LDP: Lightweight Development Platform for the ECOA standard

[ECOA] (European Component Oriented Architecture) is an open specification of a software framework 
for component-based avionics mission system software.

ECOA allows to develop _real-time_, _embeddable_ software, in the form of simple, independent and testable _components_.

The Lightweight Development Platform is a simple ECOA platform, implementing the ECOA standard, version [AS7].
It allows anyone to develop, test and run, ECOA components.
It is also a great tool to learn and evaluate ECOA on a ordinary Linux computer or Virtual Machine.

The Lightweight Development Platform is developed by [Thales] Defence Mission Systems.

## Installation

Refer to the [Installation guide](INSTALLING.md) to install the LDP on a Linux machine.

You may also use the development-container (see [containers](./containers)), which includes everything needed to develop with the ECOA LDP.

The folder contains the following scripts:

  - build_container.sh
    builds the development container.
  - run_container.sh
    runs the development container. Needs the filesystem path to be mounted as parameter.

## User's guide

See the [User's guide](USAGE.md) to get started.

## Features (and non-features)

See [LDP Features](FEATURES.md) for a list of what this ECOA platform supports, and what is does not support.

## Design and architecture

Read the [Design document](DESIGN.md) to understand the design of the LDP.

## Examples

The [Examples](Examples) folder contains examples of LDP use, including an implementation of the philosophers' dinner problem.

## Contributing

Read the [Contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) which outlines our policies, procedures and requirements
for contributing to this project.


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


---

[ECOA]: https://www.ecoa.technology/
[AS7]:  https://www.ecoa.technology/public_draft_specifications.html
[Thales]: https://www.thalesgroup.com/
